

ESP - points to top of stack
EIO - points to the next instruction being executed
EBP - points to the base of the current function


When a function is called (CALL ptr):
 - a new stack frame is created and ESP points to the top of it
 - EIP is pushed onto the stack (ESP is changed accordingly)
 - EBP is pushed onto the stack (ESP is changed accordingly)
 - ESP is loaded into EBP


EAX : accumulator : used for performing calculations, and used to store return values from function calls. Basic operations such as add, subtract, compare use this general-purpose register
EBX : base (does not have anything to do with base pointer). It has no general purpose and can be used to store data.
ECX : counter : used for iterations. ECX counts downward.
EDX : data : this is an extension of the EAX register. It allows for more complex calculations (multiply, divide) by allowing extra data to be stored to facilitate those calculations.
ESP : stack pointer
EBP : base pointer
ESI : source index : holds location of input data
EDI : destination index  : points to location of where result of data operation is stored
EIP : instruction pointer


Every Windows application uses parts of memory, 3 major components: code segment (instructions that the processor executes), data segment (variables, dynamic buffers), stack segment (used to pass data/arguments to functions, and is used as space for variables.

Every time a function is called, the function parameters are pushed onto the stack, as well  as the saved values of registers (EBP, EIP).  When a function returns, the saved value of EIP is retrieved from the stack and placed back in EIP, so the normal application flow can be resumed.

We cannot just overwrite EIP with a direct memory address. It’s not a good idea because it would not be reliable. We have to use another technique to achieve the same goal.


SEH (Structured Exception Handler)

If an exception handler is implement in this function/procedure, the exception handler gets its own stack frame.Information about the frame-based exception handler is stored in an exception_registration structure on the stack.

The SEH record has 2 fields:
 - a pointer to the nextSEH record, in case the current handler is unable the handle the exception
 - a pointer to the actual code of the exception handler. (SE Handler)

SEH chain is often called the FS:[0] chain as well.  (TEB thread environment block)
